Recap of the work done so far. This work happened over the course of a week or so, and can be broken down into a few stages. 

First stage - I began working on the game for the first time. This was also the first time I had used unity3d. Much of the work done at this point was just familiarizing myself with how things work. None of the work I did in this stage has survived.

Second stage - Began to work on a map for the first level of the game. At this stage I was manually creating everything, as in, dragging cubes around for the floor, walls, etc. I was using a character Controller for the [[Player]] character at this stage. I began to work on the logic for the [[Guard]]. Much of this work was still very clumsy. 

Third stage - At this point I am beginning to understand the importance of prefabs. I scrap my map and start building fresh from a few basic prefabs, like rooms etc. I am also beginning to script more complex game logic than simple movement. I am however realizing that much of the way that I handled "character" structure was flawed, whether that was from adding child elements that were unecessary or putting scripts on objects that didnt need to be put there. At this stage however I am feeling some sunk cost and I am proceeding without doing the work to rebuild with better ideals. 

Fourth Stage -  Disaster. I attempted to start a repo for the game for its eventual sharing, but didnt set up the gitignore file correctly. Because of this, my pushes were being rejected by Github for being too large. In a moment of exhaustion and frustration I did a hard reset to the first commit that I had made and mistakenly deleted all of my project. Despite my best attempts to recover it, almost everything was lost, and what was left was useless out of context. 

Fifth Stage - I decide to capitalize on the loss of work by starting over, this time having learnt my lesson on some game design paradigms as well as making sure my version control was properly set up from the beginning. I am able to rebuild what I had designed in a tiny fragment of the time that it took me the first time.

Sixth Stage - Now. I have a lot of work recovered. I have a lot of good stuff in my project (I think). However, I am feeling a bit of the third stage feeling of knowing that I have once again learned lessons about the mistakes I have made in my design. Mistakes that are now baked into the projects core elements. These are not however so bad that I feel scrapping the entire thing and restarting are the move. In addition, I have once again lost a fair amount of work due to apparently not having saved my scene at the end of my last session. I am making the decision now to scrap almost all of my environmental prefabs and scene. I am hopefully now moving into a stage where the work I will do will not be futureproof, but will have revision baked into its design. 

Going forward, these are the lessons I am trying to keep in mind. 
1. **Scale should not be a second thought when it comes to environmental design** - From here on out, everything will be based on the size of the player character. Conveniently, the character is a sphere with a diameter of 1. 
2. **Reusability should be the number one priority when making environmental prefabs** - I am spending way too much time slowly dragging elements around in the scene view to make sure they line up. A few things that really characterize this issue
	1. **Walls, floors, and ceilings dont need to be paper thin**. The thinner your walls and ceiling, the more precise you need to be when you are editing your scene. If you are setting your snap grid smaller and smaller to achieve minor effects like two edges lining up, you are making a mistake. If you want a single element to set apart from this norm, you do it on that element, not the prefab. Keep in mind, *you cant see through walls and floors, so usually the thickness is completely negligible when it comes to the feel of the gameplay*
	2. **(Almost) everything should sit on the unit grid** - Why waste time custom designing walkways, walls, doors each time you need to make them. What is a door if not a movable piece of wall? What is a walkway if not a series of floors? For the purposes of speed, we wont make rooms that are 1.5 times as tall as the shortest room. We make them 2,..,N times taller. 
3. **Color Design shouldn't be deprioritized (much)** - This one is tough for me. But just a little bit of work goes a really, really, *REALLY*,  long way towards making a room not look like shit. And it has a serious side effect that is extremely helpful for us as humans: It adds perspective. Seriously, when your whole map is nothing but beige blocks, it very quickly becomes extremely hard to tell what you are looking at/where things are in relation to each other. Not anymore. Going forward, every environmental object has its own color. Especially important is distinguishing things that are commonly paired together (walls, ceilings, doors). This doesnt mean we have to go all in on design, it just means that it isn't neglected in design
4. **Scripts go at the top level of the place they are needed** - This one I am unsure of, and I will keep a close eye on it going forward. So far, my feeling is that reaching three folders deep to grab a gameObject feels really tedious when developing a scene. Remembering also that a script can always reach down into its child objects to grab elements if need be. 

Wrapping up, I am about to continue to work on this document before I set to work on the game again, and most of these design notes will be written on in greater detail and with more minutiae in their respective design paradigm notes. 